>> One of the key benefits of
web servers is that we can
dynamically compose templates
on the fly and we do.
We use that for
things like querying a database and
then filling out the page with the data so
that when the user gets it,
the data from the database is in there.
Sometimes we do that with an AJAX
call does anybody say AJAX anymore?
Sometimes you do that with an HTTP call,
I'm really old,
and sometimes we do it on the server.
It's sort of traditional to do it on the
server than doing it over an HTTP calls is
the newer way, we'll do it the older way.
But in order to do that,
we need a templating engine,
because we wanted to find templates.
So we needed a templating engine for Deno,
and we know that Deno has a third party
registry, so let's just go out there and
see what it's got.
So if we look for template, we got
a couple different options, template,
template_dir and look there's a handlebars
port for Deno which is perfect and
that's the one that I wanna use.
Now, if you scroll down
here there's a view engine,
which is a template view engine for
Deno, which seems like,
well why don't we just use that,
isn't that what you want?
So the answer is yes and
I did look at this, I think that it's
probably pretty good, but
syntactically is a little bit confusing.
So if I scroll down here, it gets into
adapters and adapter factories and
engines and things like that.
And I thought that it
would be too confusing for
this so, I wanna focus on just what
it's like to use raw handlebars.
However, I should point out that if
you do use that view engine for Deno,
that you'll get things like
caching which is good.
You want caching, you don't want
to have to read that template and
re-compose it every time if the request
is exactly the same, all right, so
how do we use this thing?
Well, let's grab from their example
here and just import it and remember,
we have this deps file here where we're
putting all of our nasty URL imports.
So let's just bring it in and
it's gonna wanna fetch,
so let's do that, fetch, there we go.
While it does that, I'm actually gonna
remove this HandlebarsConfig cuz we don't
actually need this object we're
gonna be fine without it.
Okay, and then remember we
need to export the Handlebars,
alright and
did y'all see that it just rearranged,
I wonder if the Deno
formatters is doing that?
So I did router and if I do Handlebars
when I save it formats, and
it wants them in alphabetical
order [LAUGH], so
it rearranges them all right,
fine no I hit Escape again.
All right, so how do we use Handlebars?
Well, we need to create some templates, so
let's create a folder in
here called views oops.
And then inside of this,
let's create a folder called layouts,
we wanna have a main layout,
we'll just call it main.
And hbs means Handlebars and
then we need to create some HTML here,
we'll just call this Oak, where is it?
Oak Project for our page title and
then what we wanna do is,
we want to render the body
here in the body, so
the way we do that with
Handlebars is like this.
All right, so basically what we're gonna
say is we're gonna find a template and
we want you to insert
the template in the body.
Of this file but, having this main
layout file we can have a single,
alright let's do this
is-size-1>oak project,
and this will appear on every single page.
And then let's include my
most favorite CSS library but
it doesn't work in Handlebars cuz this
is not there we go, no this is not HTML.
So we'll just have to go
with unstyled content,
all right, so we have this main file,
let's create a index.hbs file.
And what we wanna do is have
some content in this index file,
which we can then insert
into the main file.
And so
what we're gonna do in our Handlebars
index file here is, pull in some markup.
And what we're gonna do is we're
gonna pass data to this template,
we're gonna pass an object called title.
And then the title will be
displayed out in the page and
this content will be inserted
into this page templating.
Alright, to make that happen,
let's create a new folder and
call it utils and then we wanna
create a Handlebars utility here, so
let's just call it hsb.ts Handlebars.
Alright, so
first we wanna import Handlebars
from our depths file deps.ts, lovely.
And then what we need to do
is say const handlebars, or
let's just call it hbs is
equals new Handlebars.
And we have to pass a configuration
object to Handlebars,
so our baseDir is just the base,
what else do we want?
A compilerOptions we can just
leave this as undefined,
cuz we're not doing it,
what else do we need?
Defaultlayout is called main,
extname is just hbs,
the helpers we're not using the helpers so
we'll set that to undefined.
The layoutsDir is called layouts,
we just call it layouts and
then partialsDir is nothing.
We don't have a partials directory
we're not gonna deal with partial
templates here.
So just let me make sure I
got all that syntax correct,
I think we did, but
what we should be able to do now is render
our template using this hps.ts file,
so how can we do that?
Let's come back over to our indexRouter
and then here what we want to do is.
Instead of just rendering this out,
what we wanna do is pull in of our hbs, so
let's pull in.
And in fact, we need to,
I forgot to export it, let's do this,
export default hbs and then we can
import it and use it over here.
[SOUND] Okay?
[SOUND] So let's get,
it's default, so we can just do,
we should be able to just do hbs,
yes okay and then let's do.
Hbs what we wanna do is
await hbs.renderView, and
we're gonna render the index view and
then we're gonna pass a title object and
we'll just say Oak, okay.
So now instead of just sending out text,
we are sending a render template,
so we're actually dynamically
composing the page on the server and
sending that back and we air it out here.
Because our watch process,
I'm not confident about this,
let me run this again.
Alright, now we're listening so
let's try this and
see if you got all this right go
to 3000 my god [LAUGH] all right.
We got not found so let's see,
what's going on here,
let's take a look at one of
the things that we can do here is.
On the layouts,
one of the things we can do is we can
create an empty partials directory.
And that will let us sort of opt
out of this configuration object,
you have to have a partials directory or
else the air is out.
And just take the defaults,
but let's let's try
this then we just need const
hbs equals new Handlebars.
Okay, and then there we go,
let's try it now,
there we go, Oak Project, Oak,
Welcome to Oak,
it's not some pretty digits